Newsletters: add 128 (2020-12-16) (#492)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2020-12-16-newsletter.md

title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #128'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2020/12/16/
name: 2020-12-16-newsletter
slug: 2020-12-16-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter FIXME:harding

## Action items

*None this week.*

## News

- **Proposed improvements to static LN backups:** anyone receiving money
  in a payment channel, including those currently used by LN, needs to
  keep track of the channel's latest state---all the details that make
  it possible to close the channel and receive the correct share of the
  channel's funds onchain.  Unfortunately, computers have a bad habit of
  losing data and regular periodic backups don't help much when a
  channel's state could've changed just milliseconds before a disk drive
  fails.

    LN has always provided some robustness against this type of problem:
    if your node is offline, your channel counterparty will eventually
    close the channel so that they can start spending their funds again.
    This will distribute your funds to the onchain part of your LN
    wallet, which you hopefully backed up using a normal [BIP32][] seed.
    This should be reasonably safe: LN's regular penalty mechanism

>     encourages your counterparty to close the channel in it's latest

Reviewer: use possessive form, instead of contradiction
```suggestion
    encourages your counterparty to close the channel in its latest
```

    state---if they use an old state, they could lose all their money
    from the channel.

    The downside of the above approach is that you have to wait for your
    counterparty to decide you're not coming back.  This wait can be
    eliminated if you backup some static information about your channel
    (e.g. the ID of your peer), reconnect to the peer after you lose
    data, and request the peer immediately close the channel.  This does
    seem to signal that you've lost data and so your peer can close the
    channel in an old state, but that isn't guaranteed that will
    work---you might still have old states that will allow you to
    penalize them.

    This week, Lloyd Fournier started two threads on the Lightning-Dev
    mailing list about possible improvements to the above mechanisms:

    - **Fast recovery without backups:** the static per-channel backups

>       that allow fast recovery of funds require you create a new backup

Reviewer: nit, use to-infinitive form of create
```suggestion
      that allow fast recovery of funds require you to create a new backup
```

      each time you open a new channel.  If you fail to make a backup,
      your only option is to wait until your channel counterparty
      decides to close the channel on their own.  Fournier instead
      [proposed][really static backups] a deterministic key derivation method that would allow a
      node to search through the list of public LN nodes, combine
      information about its private keys derived from its HD wallet with
      information about each node's main public key, and determine
      whether or not it had a channel with that node.  This would only
      work for channels you open with public nodes, but it's expected
      that's what most regular people will be using anyway.

>     - **Covert state acquisition:** as mentioned, asking your

Reviewer: I think the following sounds better: 
**Covert state acquisition:**  as mentioned; asking your counterparty to close the channel is evidence that you've lost state and may be vulnerable to theft, but it's not proof. In the event your counterparty attempts to steal from you, they put their own funds at risk. Of course, it'd be better to avoid leaking evidence in the first place. ...

[Hardware Wallet Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Bitcoin Improvement Proposals
(BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo].*

- [Bitcoin Core #20564][] and [#20612][Bitcoin Core #20612] Don't send
  'sendaddrv2' to pre-70016 software, and send before 'verack'
  FIXME:jnewbery, maybe also mention mailing list post and #20599

- [Bitcoin Core #19776][] net, rpc: expose high bandwidth mode state via getpeerinfo FIXME:moneyball

- [Bitcoin Core #19858][] adds a new method for finding high-quality peers with
  the goal of making [eclipse attacks][topic eclipse attacks] more difficult.
  It opens an outbound connection every five minutes on average to a new peer
  and syncs headers with it. If the peer tells the node about new blocks, the
  node disconnects an existing block-relay-only peer and gives that connection
  slot to the new peer; otherwise, the new peer is dropped.  Provided the node
  knows at least one honest peer, this peer rotation should raise the cost of
  sustaining a partitioning attack against it, as the node should always
  eventually find the valid chain with the most work. The increased rotation and

>   security isn't free---the change implies a reduction in the number of open

Reviewer: use `aren't` instead of `isn't` because there is a plural compound subject in (rotation, security)
```suggestion
  security aren't free---the change implies a reduction in the number of open
```

  hashlocks, such as recurring payments for subscriptions and donations.
  See the [BOLT12 draft][] for more information.

- [Eclair #1566][] Distribute connection-handling on multiple machines using akka-cluster FIXME:dongcarl

- [Eclair #1610][] Set initial relay fees during channel open FIXME:bitschmidty

- [Eclair #1608][] Retrieve bitcoin's mempool-min-fee FIXME:bitschmidty

- [LND #4779][] allows the node to claim payments (HTLCs) that weren't
  yet settled at the time a channel using [anchor outputs][topic anchor
  outputs] was closed.

- [BIPs #1043][] BIP155: change when sendaddrv2 is to be sent FIXME:jnewbery

- [BOLTs #803][] updates [BOLT5][] with recommendations for preventing
  a [transaction pinning][topic transaction pinning] attack.  The recent
  [anchor outputs][topic anchor outputs] update to the LN specification
  allows multiple payments (HTLCs) that were pending at the time a
  channel was unilaterally closed to all be settled in the same
  transaction.  A potential problem is that some of those outputs may
  pay your channel counterparty, giving them the ability to pin the
  transaction and prevent the other HTLCs in the batch from confirming

>   until after their timelocks expire.  The recommendation is allow

Reviewer: missing `to`
```suggestion
  until after their timelocks expire.  The recommendation is to allow
```

    encourages your counterparty to close the channel in it's latest
    state---if they use an old state, they could lose all their money
    from the channel.

    The downside of the above approach is that you have to wait for your
    counterparty to decide you're not coming back.  This wait can be
    eliminated if you backup some static information about your channel
    (e.g. the ID of your peer), reconnect to the peer after you lose
    data, and request the peer immediately close the channel.  This does
    seem to signal that you've lost data and so your peer can close the
    channel in an old state, but that isn't guaranteed that will
    work---you might still have old states that will allow you to
    penalize them.

    This week, Lloyd Fournier started two threads on the Lightning-Dev
    mailing list about possible improvements to the above mechanisms:

    - **Fast recovery without backups:** the static per-channel backups
      that allow fast recovery of funds require you create a new backup
      each time you open a new channel.  If you fail to make a backup,
      your only option is to wait until your channel counterparty

>       decides to close the channel on their own.  Fournier instead

Reviewer 2: We generally use they/their for a counterparty.

release candidates.*

FIXME:harding to update

- [Bitcoin Core 0.21.0rc3][Bitcoin Core 0.21.0] is a release candidate
  for the next major version of this full node implementation and its
  associated wallet and other software.

## Notable code and documentation changes

*Notable changes this week in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo],
[C-Lightning][c-lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LND][lnd repo],
[Rust-Lightning][rust-lightning repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo],
[Hardware Wallet Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Bitcoin Improvement Proposals
(BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo].*

- [Bitcoin Core #20564][] makes two changes to the way that Bitcoin Core
  signals support for `addrv2` messages ([BIP155][]):

  - Bitcoin Core will only negotiate support for `addrv2` messages with peers that signal
    they are using p2p version 70016 or higher. This restriction isn't required by the BIP,
    but release testing has revealed that some other implementation will disconnect
    from Bitcoin Core if they receive any unknown message, including
    `sendaddrv2`. This change may be reverted in future versions of Bitcoin Core,

>     so other implementations are advised to always tolerate unknown p2p messages.

Reviewer 2: Harding has resolved this as "are advised to tolerate unknown P2P messages at any time in the connection" which is clearer. In general, there's no problem in splitting infinitives, and the alternative offered here ("always advised to tolerate") changes the meaning of the sentence (the advice is happening always instead of the toleration).

  node disconnects an existing block-relay-only peer and gives that connection
  slot to the new peer; otherwise, the new peer is dropped.  Provided the node
  knows at least one honest peer, this peer rotation should raise the cost of
  sustaining a partitioning attack against it, as the node should always
  eventually find the valid chain with the most work. The increased rotation and
  security isn't free---the change implies a reduction in the number of open
  listening sockets on the network and an increase in network load, and it may
  need to be optimized. Nevertheless, it is expected to help bridge the network
  as a whole via more frequent connections, therefore more edges to the network
  graph, providing more security against partitioning attacks in general.

- [Bitcoin Core #18766][] disables the ability to get fee estimates when
  using the `blocksonly` configuration option.  This bandwidth-saving
  option stops Bitcoin Core from requesting and relaying unconfirmed
  transactions.  However, Bitcoin Core's fee estimates are also
  dependent on tracking how long it takes transactions to become
  confirmed.  Previously, when `blocksonly` was enabled, Bitcoin Core

>   stopped updating its estimates but it continued to return the

Reviewer 2: 'it' has been removed

  estimates it had already generated, producing increasingly out of date
  estimates.  After this change, it won't return any estimates at all
  when `blocksonly` mode is enabled.

- [C-Lightning #4255][] is the first of a series of pull requests for an
  initial version of *offers*---the ability to request and receive invoices

>   over the LN.  A normal expected use of this feature would be for a

Reviewer 3: superfluous "normal"
```suggestion
  over the LN.  An expected use of this feature would be for a
```

  earlier in connection establishment, between sending its `version` and `verack`
  messages. This is consistent with how [wtxid relay][] support is negotiated
  and with [a generic method for negotiating features][feature negotiation]
  proposed to the mailing list earlier this year.

    John Newbery posted [a summary of all the changes to BIP155][jnewbery
    bip155] since it was proposed in February 2019 to the Bitcoin-dev mailing list.

- [BOLTs #803][] updates [BOLT5][] with recommendations for preventing
  a [transaction pinning][topic transaction pinning] attack.  The recent
  [anchor outputs][topic anchor outputs] update to the LN specification
  allows multiple payments (HTLCs) that were pending at the time a
  channel was unilaterally closed to all be settled in the same
  transaction.  A potential problem is that some of those outputs may
  pay your channel counterparty, giving them the ability to pin the
  transaction and prevent the other HTLCs in the batch from confirming
  until after their timelocks expire.  The recommendation is allow
  batching the HTLCs for maximum efficiency when there's plenty of time

>   left, but to split each HTLC into a separate transaction when the

Reviewer 3: Believe this a compound predicate meaning we can drop this comma
```suggestion
  left but to split each HTLC into a separate transaction when the
```

  timelock expiration is approaching so that pinning isn't a problem.

## Correction

[Newsletter #87][news87 negotiation] incorrectly claimed that "previous versions of Bitcoin
Core would terminate a new connection if certain messages didn’t appear
in a particular order".  We were alluding to a belief that the `version`
message needed to be immediately followed by the `verack` message
introduced in Bitcoin 0.2.9 (May 2010).  Subsequent code review and

> testing of old versions of Bitcoin Core by Optech contributors does not

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
testing of old versions of Bitcoin Core by Optech contributors do not
```

substantiate this statement and we've added a correction to the original

> text.  We appologize for the error.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
text.  We apologize for the error.
```

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #128'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2020/12/16/
name: 2020-12-16-newsletter
slug: 2020-12-16-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter FIXME:harding

## Action items

*None this week.*

## News

- **Proposed improvements to static LN backups:** anyone receiving money
  in a payment channel, including those currently used by LN, needs to
  keep track of the channel's latest state---all the details that make
  it possible to close the channel and receive the correct share of the
  channel's funds onchain.  Unfortunately, computers have a bad habit of
  losing data and regular periodic backups don't help much when a

>   channel's state could've changed just milliseconds before a disk drive

Author: I see you're an unfortunate victim of the teaching that contractions shouldn't be used in formal writing.  I'm from the school that thinks they're a wonderful tool for making sentences shorter, easier to read, and more natural sounding.  (Of course, we ain't wanna be abusin' 'em.)

>   channel's state could've changed just milliseconds before a disk drive

Reviewer 4: I usually don't mind contractions, but in the case of "could have changed", "could've changed" reads more difficult to me. :shrug:

>   channel's state could've changed just milliseconds before a disk drive

Author: Interesting.  Do you have a feeling for whether that's something specific to you or whether it's something that might affect other readers of English as a second language?

>   channel's state could've changed just milliseconds before a disk drive

Reviewer 4: I don't think I'd ever say "could've" (I'm not even sure how to pronounce that without slipping at least an "a" in there), but would always use that uncontracted as in "could have". Maybe that's what's throwing my reading off. Can't speak for the general population, but it may just be that the contraction appears seldom in written English.

>   channel's state could've changed just milliseconds before a disk drive

Reviewer 5: My experience is that the Europeans I know were taught the same as @Xekyo, and I was as well (in the US by a hardcore, demanding but amazing English teacher). Maybe it's old school compared to the current state in the US, I don't know.

  fails.

    LN has always provided some robustness against this type of problem:
    if your node is offline, your channel counterparty will eventually
    close the channel so that they can start spending their funds again.

>     This will distribute your funds to the onchain part of your LN

Author: I think "distribute" might be more accurate.  If I fund a channel to you, then the money paid to you at closing isn't returning to your wallet---it's going there for the first time.

>     This will distribute your funds to the onchain part of your LN

Reviewer 4: I was thinking "return to you". "Distribute" made me think of giving something away or scattering, I hadn't seen it used in the sense of "disbursing".

>     This will distribute your funds to the onchain part of your LN

Author: That's fair and, looking at it again, I could've just used the the simple verb "send".  I'll update it.

    wallet, which you hopefully backed up using a normal [BIP32][] seed.
    This should be reasonably safe: LN's regular penalty mechanism
    encourages your counterparty to close the channel in it's latest
    state---if they use an old state, they could lose all their money
    from the channel.

    The downside of the above approach is that you have to wait for your
    counterparty to decide you're not coming back.  This wait can be
    eliminated if you backup some static information about your channel
    (e.g. the ID of your peer), reconnect to the peer after you lose

>     data, and request the peer immediately close the channel.  This does

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    data, and request that the peer immediately close the channel.  This does
```

>     seem to signal that you've lost data and so your peer can close the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    seem to reveal that you have lost data and your peer could close the
```

>     channel in an old state, but that isn't guaranteed that will

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    channel in an old state.
```

>     work---you might still have old states that will allow you to

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    But the peer cannot know which old states you might still have, and thus would risk being penalized for using an outdated state.
```

    penalize them.

    This week, Lloyd Fournier started two threads on the Lightning-Dev
    mailing list about possible improvements to the above mechanisms:

    - **Fast recovery without backups:** the static per-channel backups
      that allow fast recovery of funds require you create a new backup
      each time you open a new channel.  If you fail to make a backup,
      your only option is to wait until your channel counterparty
      decides to close the channel on their own.  Fournier instead
      [proposed][really static backups] a deterministic key derivation method that would allow a
      node to search through the list of public LN nodes, combine
      information about its private keys derived from its HD wallet with
      information about each node's main public key, and determine
      whether or not it had a channel with that node.  This would only
      work for channels you open with public nodes, but it's expected

>       that's what most regular people will be using anyway.

Reviewer 4: > This would only work for channels you open with public nodes, but it's expected that's what most regular people will be using anyway.

This backup strategy would only work for channels opened with public nodes, but should cover expected usage of most regular users.

      paying less fees, is not identifiable onchain as having belonged
      to an LN channel, and allows both parties to spend their funds
      immediately.  However, mutual close transactions don't contain any
      penalty mechanism, so if you request a channel be closed and your
      counterparty gives you an inaccurate mutual close transaction,
      there's no way for you to penalize them.  In the normal protocol
      this isn't an issue---you'd just broadcast the latest state, but
      if you've lost your state, then you have no remedy.

        Fournier proposed a solution using a cryptographic primitive
        called [oblivious transfer][].  The technique allows you to
        decide when you reconnect to your counterparty whether or not
        you want to mutually close the channel.  If you do, they give
        you a copy of the unsigned mutual close transaction plus an
        encrypted copy of their signature for it.  You decrypt the
        signature, provide your own signature, and broadcast the
        transaction.  If you don't want to close the channel, you
        perform all the same steps from their perspective until you

>         receive the encrypted signature.  You then prove to them that

Reviewer 2: "prove to them that generated" -> "prove to them that you generated"

>         generated the encryption key in a way that prevents you (or

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        they(?) generated the encryption key in a way that prevents you (or
```

Reviewer 4: I'm having trouble following this sentence. I thought they gave me an encrypted copy of their signature, but now we prove to that we generated something. It seems that there is either a step missing or "you" and "they" switched sides. Otherwise, how would we ever be able to prove the absence of our ability to decrypt something?

Reviewer 2: I agree that this is quite difficult to follow.

Author: Sorry, it's hard to compress two pages of protocol description to a single paragraph.  :-)  I pushed a revision that just focuses on the results.  But, to answer your question in case you're curious, the trick is that you choose and send them the encryption key.  If you want a copy of the mutual close transaction, you chose a regular working encryption key.  If you don't want the transaction, you chose a key for which you can prove you couldn't know the corresponding decryption key.

  [output script descriptors][topic descriptors] and introduces [libbwt][libbwt github],
  a library for allowing Electrum-backed wallets to easily support a Bitcoin
  Core full node.

- **JoinMarket now defaults to native segwit addresses:**
  While JoinMarket supported segwit since 0.5.1, [version 0.8.0][joinmarket 0.8.0]
  now uses bech32 native segwit addresses by default for [coinjoins][topic coinjoin].

- **Bisq adds segwit for trade transactions:**
  Building on [previous bech32 support][news120 bisq segwit] for deposits and
  withdrawals, [Bisq v1.5.0][bisq bech32 blog] adds segwit support within trade
  transactions as well as implementing fee optimizations.

- **PSBT Toolkit v0.1.2 released:**
  [PSBT Toolkit][psbt toolkit github], software that "aims to give you a nice
  gui that gives you functionality for PSBT interactions", released various
  improvements in its 0.1.2 version.

- **Sparrow adds Replace-By-Fee:**
  [Sparrow 0.9.8][sparrow 0.9.8] adds [Replace-By-Fee (RBF)][topic rbf]
  functionality and support for [HWI][topic hwi] 1.2.1.

- **Ledger Live adds Bitcoin Core full node support:**

>   Ledger Live, using the open source [Ledger StackSat][satstack github]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  Ledger Live, using the open source [Ledger SatStack][satstack github]
```

Checked linked site, I think the latter is the correct term.

  application, can now [connect to a Bitcoin full node][ledger full node] for
  sending transactions and providing balances in a more private way, without
  using Ledger’s [explorers][topic block explorers].

## Selected Q&A from Bitcoin StackExchange

*[Bitcoin StackExchange][bitcoin.se] is one of the first places Optech
contributors look for answers to their questions---or when we have a
few spare moments to help curious or confused users.  In
this monthly feature, we highlight some of the top-voted questions and
answers posted since our last update.*

{% comment %}<!-- https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/search?tab=votes&q=created%3a1m..%20is%3aanswer -->{% endcomment %}
{% assign bse = "https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/a/" %}

- [What is the difference between "native segwit" and "bech32"?]({{bse}}100434)
  Murch describes that bech32 is the address format for encoding native segwit
  v0 outputs, while, due to a [length extension mutation][news78 bech32 mutability],
  a modified bech32 address format, "bech32m", will encode Pay-to-Taproot (P2TR)

>   segwit v1 outputs.

Reviewer 2: This second part "while, due to .... segwit v1 outputs." isn't a direct answer to the question "what's the difference between 'native segwit' and 'bech32'?" and is provided in the stackexchange answer for more detail/context. I think it should be omitted from this summary, or at least summarised in a separate sentence: "Murch goes on to explain that due to a ..." or similar.

Reviewer 6: Agreed. Amended to keep the second part in as I think it’s the more interesting piece here.

(BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo].*

- [Bitcoin Core #20564][] makes two changes to the way that Bitcoin Core
  signals support for `addrv2` messages ([BIP155][]):

  - Bitcoin Core will only negotiate support for `addrv2` messages with peers that signal
    they are using p2p version 70016 or higher. This restriction isn't required by the BIP,
    but release testing has revealed that some other implementation will disconnect
    from Bitcoin Core if they receive any unknown message, including
    `sendaddrv2`. This change may be reverted in future versions of Bitcoin Core,
    so other implementations are advised to always tolerate unknown p2p messages.

  - The `sendaddrv2` message will now be sent between the `version` and
    `verack` message, as required by the latest version of BIP155. See [BIPs
    #1043](#bips-1043) below for more information about that change to the BIP.

    This PR was back-ported to [the latest V0.21 release candidate][Bitcoin
    Core 0.21.0] in [Bitcoin Core #20612][].

- [Bitcoin Core #19776][] updates the `getpeerinfo` RPC with two new
  fields. `bip152_hb_to` indicates that we asked the peer to relay new

>   blocks to us by sending a a [BIP152][] compact block without waiting

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  blocks to us by sending a [BIP152][] compact block without waiting
```

  to ask if we need that specific block, called High-Bandwidth (HB)

>   mode.   `bip152_hb_from` indicates the peer asked us to be one of

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  mode.   `bip152_hb_from` indicates that the peer asked us to be one of
```

  their high-bandwidth peers.  By default, each node selects [up to
  3][hb peers] high-bandwidth compact block peers.  (Despite the name,
  high-bandwidth doesn't use much bandwidth compared to legacy block
  relay; its optimizations for fast relay of new blocks just uses more
  bandwidth than BIP152's low-bandwidth mode.)

- [Bitcoin Core #19858][] adds a new method for finding high-quality peers with
  the goal of making [eclipse attacks][topic eclipse attacks] more difficult.
  It opens an outbound connection every five minutes on average to a new peer
  and syncs headers with it. If the peer tells the node about new blocks, the
  node disconnects an existing block-relay-only peer and gives that connection
  slot to the new peer; otherwise, the new peer is dropped.  Provided the node

>   knows at least one honest peer, this peer rotation should raise the cost of

Reviewer 2: Perhaps "knows the address of at least one honest node". "knows one honest peer" might be interpreted as being connected to at least one honest peer.

  sustaining a partitioning attack against it, as the node should always
  eventually find the valid chain with the most work. The increased rotation and
  security isn't free---the change implies a reduction in the number of open
  listening sockets on the network and an increase in network load, and it may
  need to be optimized. Nevertheless, it is expected to help bridge the network

>   as a whole via more frequent connections, therefore more edges to the network

Reviewer 4: Maybe omit "therefore more edges to the network graph".

  graph, providing more security against partitioning attacks in general.

- [Bitcoin Core #18766][] disables the ability to get fee estimates when
  using the `blocksonly` configuration option.  This bandwidth-saving
  option stops Bitcoin Core from requesting and relaying unconfirmed
  transactions.  However, Bitcoin Core's fee estimates are also
  dependent on tracking how long it takes transactions to become
  confirmed.  Previously, when `blocksonly` was enabled, Bitcoin Core
  stopped updating its estimates but it continued to return the
  estimates it had already generated, producing increasingly out of date
  estimates.  After this change, it won't return any estimates at all
  when `blocksonly` mode is enabled.

- [C-Lightning #4255][] is the first of a series of pull requests for an
  initial version of *offers*---the ability to request and receive invoices
  over the LN.  A normal expected use of this feature would be for a

>   merchant to show a potential customer a QR code, the customer scans

Reviewer 4: "to show" vs "scans" seems to switch the tense

  the QR code, the customer's LN node sends some of the details from the
  QR code (such as an order ID number) to the merchant's node over LN,
  the merchant's node returns an invoice (also over LN), the invoice is

>   displayed to the user (who agrees to pay), and payment is sent.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  displayed to the user (who agrees to pay), and the payment is sent.
```

  Although this use case is already addressed today using [BOLT11][]
  invoices, the ability for the spending and receiving nodes to

>   communicate directly before payment provides much more flexibility.  It

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  communicate directly before the payment provides much more flexibility.  It
```

    so other implementations are advised to tolerate unknown P2P messages at any time in the connection.

  - *Updated BIP:* The `sendaddrv2` message will now be sent between the `version` and
    `verack` message, as required by the latest version of BIP155. See [BIPs
    #1043](#bips-1043) below for more information about that change to the BIP.

    This PR was back-ported to [the latest V0.21 release candidate][Bitcoin
    Core 0.21.0] in [Bitcoin Core #20612][].

- [Bitcoin Core #19776][] updates the `getpeerinfo` RPC with two new
  fields. `bip152_hb_to` indicates that we asked the peer to relay new
  blocks to us by sending a [BIP152][] compact block without waiting to
  ask if we need that specific block, called High-Bandwidth (HB) mode.
  `bip152_hb_from` indicates that the peer asked us to be one of their
  high-bandwidth peers.  By default, each node selects [up to 3][hb
  peers] high-bandwidth compact block peers.  (Despite the name,
  high-bandwidth mode doesn't use much bandwidth compared to legacy block
  relay; its optimizations for fast relay of new blocks just uses more
  bandwidth than BIP152's low-bandwidth mode.)

> - [Bitcoin Core #19858][] adds a new method for finding high-quality peers with

Reviewer 4: Note: this is really familiar, because we covered it last week for the PR review club.

Reviewer 5: But I *did* try to improve it :smiley:

Reviewer 4: Well, I looked up whether we had covered the merge last week already, because I felt I had read it before, but realized that it was the PR Review Club summary. Just trying to save others that investigation. :+1:

  in a payment channel, including those currently used by LN, needs to
  keep track of the channel's latest state---all the details that make
  it possible to close the channel and receive the correct share of the
  channel's funds onchain.  Unfortunately, computers have a bad habit of
  losing data and regular periodic backups don't help much when a
  channel's state could have changed just milliseconds before a disk drive
  fails.

    LN has always provided some robustness against this type of problem:
    if your node is offline, your channel counterparty will eventually
    close the channel so that they can start spending their funds again.
    This will distribute your funds to the onchain part of your LN
    wallet, which you hopefully backed up using a normal [BIP32][] seed.
    This should be reasonably safe: LN's regular penalty mechanism
    encourages your counterparty to close the channel in its latest
    state---if they use an old state, they could lose all their money
    from the channel.

    The downside of the above approach is that you have to wait for your
    counterparty to decide that you're not coming back.  This wait can be

>     eliminated if you backup some static information about your channel

Reviewer 2: fixed

    seem to indicate that you've lost data and so your peer could close the
    channel in an old state---but, if they try that and
    you still have your old data, you can penalize them.

    This week, Lloyd Fournier started two threads on the Lightning-Dev
    mailing list about possible improvements to the above mechanisms:

    - **Fast recovery without backups:** the static per-channel backups
      that allow fast recovery of funds require you to create a new backup
      each time you open a new channel.  If you fail to make a backup,
      your only option is to wait until your channel counterparty
      decides to close the channel on their own.  Fournier instead
      [proposed][really static backups] a deterministic key derivation method that would allow a
      node to search through the list of public LN nodes, combine
      information about its private keys derived from its HD wallet with
      information about each node's main public key, and determine
      whether or not it had a channel with that node.  This backup strategy would only
      work for channels opened with public nodes, but it's expected

>       that's what most regular people will be using anyway.

Reviewer 2: reworded

      penalty mechanism, so if you request a channel be closed and your
      counterparty gives you an inaccurate mutual close transaction,
      there's no way for you to penalize them.  In the normal protocol,
      this isn't an issue---you'd just broadcast the latest state, but
      if you've lost your state, then you have no remedy.

        Fournier proposed a [solution][oblivious mutual close] using a
        cryptographic primitive called [oblivious transfer][] that
        allows your counterparty to send you the mutual close
        transaction encrypted in a way that allows you to either use it
        (closing the channel) or prove that you can't decrypt it
        (allowing them to safely continue accepting payments in the
        channel).  If you use this procedure every time
        you reconnect, you don't reveal to them that you lost any data
        until after they've provided you all the information you need to
        recover.

- **New PSBT version proposed:** Andrew Chow, author of the [BIP174][]
  specification of [Partially Signed Bitcoin Transactions][topic psbt]
  (PSBTs), [proposed][psbt2] a new version of PSBTs that will contain

>   several backwards incompatible features, although it'll be largely the

Reviewer 2: fixed

  same as the current version 0 PSBT.

## Changes to services and client software

*In this monthly feature, we highlight interesting updates to Bitcoin
wallets and services.*

- **Bitcoin Wallet Tracker adds descriptor support:**
  Bitcoin Wallet Tracker's [0.2.0 release][bwt 0.2.0] adds support for tracking
  [output script descriptors][topic descriptors] and introduces [libbwt][libbwt github],
  a library for allowing Electrum-backed wallets to easily support a Bitcoin
  Core full node.

- **JoinMarket now defaults to native segwit addresses:**
  While JoinMarket supported segwit since 0.5.1, [version 0.8.0][joinmarket 0.8.0]
  now uses bech32 native segwit addresses by default for [coinjoins][topic coinjoin].

- **Bisq adds segwit for trade transactions:**
  Building on [previous bech32 support][news120 bisq segwit] for deposits and
  withdrawals, [Bisq v1.5.0][bisq bech32 blog] adds segwit support within trade
  transactions as well as implementing fee optimizations.

- **PSBT Toolkit v0.1.2 released:**
  [PSBT Toolkit][psbt toolkit github], software that "aims to give you a nice

>   gui that gives you functionality for PSBT interactions", released various

Reviewer 2: I think we should leave this as a direct quote.

  improvements in its 0.1.2 version.

- **Sparrow adds Replace-By-Fee:**
  [Sparrow 0.9.8][sparrow 0.9.8] adds [Replace-By-Fee (RBF)][topic rbf]

>   functionality and support for [HWI][topic hwi] 1.2.1.

Reviewer 2: I think that's too much link density, since it'd be right next to the HWI link.

- [What is the difference between "native segwit" and "bech32"?]({{bse}}100434)
  Murch describes that bech32 is the method used for encoding native
  segwit v0 witness programs; it's equivalent to the base58check encoding
  used for legacy Bitcoin addresses.  The same bech32 encoding is also
  used for other purposes, such as LN invoices.  Bech32 was planned
  to be used for later versions of segwit witness programs but
  a [length extension mutation][news78 bech32 mutability] was discovered
  that necessitates using a modified bech32 address format, possibly
  called "bech32m", for Pay-to-Taproot (P2TR) segwit v1 witness programs.

- [What makes cross input signature aggregation complicated to implement?]({{bse}}100216)
  Michael Folkson references a Bitcoin dev mailing list [post by AJ Towns][aj signature aggregation]
  in explaining challenges to implementing cross input signature aggregation in Bitcoin.

- [How do BIP8 and BIP9 differ, how are they alike?]({{bse}}100490)
  Murch provides an overview of early soft fork activation methods using the
  block version, BIP9's multiple-proposal-supporting activation method, and BIP8's block

>   height and lock-in adjustments to BIP9.

Reviewer 2: Good observation. I've reworded the sentence.

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

- [Bitcoin Core 0.21.0rc3][Bitcoin Core 0.21.0] is a release candidate
  for the next major version of this full node implementation and its
  associated wallet and other software.  Note, the rc3 version of the

>   [signed binary][macos signed] will not run due to a problem with the

Author: Whoops, good catch, I confused myself into thinking that was explained by using macos in the (unrendered) link ids.  Thanks!

>   [signed binary][macos signed] will not run due to a problem with the

Reviewer 2: fixed

  this newsletter.  They contain several bug fixes, such as an
  improvement described in [Newsletter #110][news110 bcc19620] that will
  prevent them from redownloading future taproot transactions that they
  don't understand.

## Notable code and documentation changes

*Notable changes this week in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo],
[C-Lightning][c-lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LND][lnd repo],
[Rust-Lightning][rust-lightning repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo],
[Hardware Wallet Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Bitcoin Improvement Proposals
(BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo].*

- [Bitcoin Core #20564][] makes two changes to the way that Bitcoin Core
  signals support for `addrv2` messages ([BIP155][]):

  - *Protocol version:* Bitcoin Core will only negotiate support for `addrv2` messages with peers that signal
    they are using P2P version 70016 or higher. This restriction isn't required by BIP155,
    but release testing has revealed that some other implementations will disconnect
    from Bitcoin Core if they receive any unknown message, including
    `sendaddrv2`. This change may be reverted in future versions of Bitcoin Core,

>     so other implementations are advised to tolerate unknown P2P messages at any time in the connection.

Reviewer 2: I think 'at any time in' is ok. We don't want to drop this part entirely because it emphasizes that unknown messages are allowed before and after the verack.

  - *Updated BIP:* The `sendaddrv2` message will now be sent between the `version` and
    `verack` message, as required by the latest version of BIP155. See [BIPs
    #1043](#bips-1043) below for more information about that change to the BIP.

>     This PR was back-ported to [the latest V0.21 release candidate][Bitcoin

Reviewer 2: fixed

  when `blocksonly` mode is enabled.

- [C-Lightning #4255][] is the first of a series of pull requests for an
  initial version of *offers*---the ability to request and receive invoices
  over the LN.  A common use of this feature would be that a
  merchant generates a QR code, the customer scans
  the QR code, the customer's LN node sends some of the details from the
  QR code (such as an order ID number) to the merchant's node over LN,
  the merchant's node returns an invoice (also over LN), the invoice is
  displayed to the user (who agrees to pay), and the payment is sent.
  Although this use case is already addressed today using [BOLT11][]
  invoices, the ability for the spending and receiving nodes to
  communicate directly before attempting payment provides much more flexibility.  It
  also enables features that aren't possible with BOLT11's one-time-use
  hashlocks, such as recurring payments for subscriptions and donations.
  See the [BOLT12 draft][] for more information.

- [Eclair #1566][] abstracts out all connection-handling logic into a front
  node, which can be distributed across multiple hosts to achieve

>   high-availability for production deployments. These front nodes also handle

Reviewer 2: fixed

  CPU/bandwidth-intensive [BOLT7][] messages, such as routing table related
  gossip and syncing requests, in a distributed manner, improving scalability
  for larger node deployments like ACINQ's. For readers looking to deploy this
  change, an AWS Beanstalk bundle is available, and the author recommends using
  the AWS Secrets Manager to store the node's private key, a topic previously
  covered in the [SuredBits field report][suredbits].

> - [Eclair #1610][] allows overriding of the default relay fees when

Reviewer 2: fixed

  opening a new channel using the new `feeBaseMsat` and
  `feeProportionalMillionths` options.

- [LND #4779][] allows the node to claim payments (HTLCs) that weren't
  yet settled at the time a channel using [anchor outputs][topic anchor
  outputs] was closed.

- [BIPs #1043][] changes the way that support for [BIP155][] is negotiated between
  peers. Previously, the BIP specified that a node should send a `sendaddrv2` message
  to signal support for BIP155 after receiving a `verack` message from its peer.

>   The BIP now specifies that the node should send the `sendaddrv2` message

Reviewer 2: fixed

[Hardware Wallet Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Bitcoin Improvement Proposals
(BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo].*

- [Bitcoin Core #20564][] makes two changes to the way that Bitcoin Core
  signals support for `addrv2` messages ([BIP155][]):

  - Bitcoin Core will only negotiate support for `addrv2` messages with peers that signal

>     they are using p2p version 70016 or higher. This restriction isn't required by the BIP,

Reviewer 5: maybe s/the BIP/BIP155/

>     but release testing has revealed that some other implementation will disconnect

Reviewer 5: s/some other implementation/other implementations/

    from Bitcoin Core if they receive any unknown message, including
    `sendaddrv2`. This change may be reverted in future versions of Bitcoin Core,

>     so other implementations are advised to always tolerate unknown p2p messages.

Reviewer 5: s/p2p/P2P/ per style guide (there are multiple instances to change)

  - The `sendaddrv2` message will now be sent between the `version` and
    `verack` message, as required by the latest version of BIP155. See [BIPs
    #1043](#bips-1043) below for more information about that change to the BIP.

>     This PR was back-ported to [the latest V0.21 release candidate][Bitcoin

Reviewer 5: s/back-ported/backported/? (e.g. do we write back-packs vs backpacks, but maybe it's English English)

  yet settled at the time a channel using [anchor outputs][topic anchor
  outputs] was closed.

- [BIPs #1043][] changes the way that support for [BIP155][] is negotiated between
  peers. Previously, the BIP specified that a node should send a `sendaddrv2` message
  to signal support for BIP155 after receiving a `verack` message from its peer.
  The BIP now specifies that the node should send the `sendaddrv2` message
  earlier in connection establishment, between sending its `version` and `verack`

>   messages. This is consistent with how [wtxid relay][] support is negotiated

Reviewer 5: maybe append "in [BIP339][]" to "negotiated"
